<h2>Airline_Management_System (DBMS Mini Project):</h2>
<p>The airline reservation system is one of the most used database systems in the world. It is an example of Transaction processing systems. Transaction processing systems are systems with large databases and hundreds of concurrent users executing database transactions. These systems require high availability and fast response time for hundreds of concurrent users. In this project, we deal with the database part of the whole system with insertions, deletions and updates as the primary task of our system along with maintenance of the integrity of the system at all stages of a transaction. The system that is being described in this report handles everything that the most practical systems would do. The complexity of the database system has been handled by trying to make most basic entities resemble real-world objects. Our database handles the most basic functions of an airline reservation system, including reservation, cancellation and updating of a flight trip transaction.</p>

<h3>Introduction:</h3>
<p>Airline Reservation System will hold flight schedules and its fare tariffs, passenger reservations and ticket records. It saves time as it allows online procedure as users no longer to wait in a queue to book the flights. It is automatically generated by the server. Admin is the main authority who can do addition, deletion, and modification of flights if required. The project has been planned to be having the view of distributed architecture, with centralized storage of the database. The application for the storage of the data has been planned.. The database connectivity is planned using the “SQL Connection” methodology. The standards of security and data protective mechanisms have been given a big choice for proper usage. The application takes care of different modules and their associated reports, which are produced as per the applicable strategies and standards that are put forward by the administrative staff.</p>
<p>The entire project has been developed keeping in view the distributed client-server computing technology, in mind. The specification has been normalized up to 2NF to eliminate all the anomalies that may arise due to the database transaction that are executed by the general users and the organizational administration. The user interfaces are browser specific to give distributed accessibility for the overall system. The internal database has been selected as Database Mysql.</p>
